docs: initial draft for resource labels (#252)
seqeralabs/nf-tower-docs: docs/resource-labels/overview.md

---
title: Resource labels overview
headline: 'Resource labels'
description: 'Step-by-step instructions to set-up and use Resource labels in Tower.'
---

## Introduction

From version 22.3, Tower supports applying resource labels to compute environments and other Tower elements. This offers a flexible tagging system for annotation and tracking of the cloud services consumed by a run. 
Resource labels are sent to the service provider for each cloud compute environment in `key=value` format. 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Create and apply labels

Resource labels can be created, applied, and edited by a workspace admin or owner. When applying a label, users can select from existing labels or add new labels on the fly. 

![](_images/ce-resource-labels.png)

> ### Resource labels applied to a compute environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Resource labels applied to a compute environment

```

Admins can assign a set of resource labels when creating a compute environment.
All runs executed using the compute environment will be tagged with its resource labels.
Resource labels applied to a compute environment are displayed on the compute environment details page.

![](_images/launch-resource-labels.png)

Apply a label when adding a new compute environment to the workspace.

!!!warning
    Once the compute environment has been created, its resource labels cannot be edited.

If a resource label is applied to a compute environment, all runs in that compute environment will inherit it. Likewise, all cloud resources generated during the workflow execution will be tagged with the same resource label.

![](_images/workflow-resource-labels.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### AWS

When the compute environment is created with Forge, the following resources will be tagged using the labels associated with the compute environment:

- FSX Filesystems
- EFS Filesystems
- Roles and Policies
- Batch Compute Environment
- Batch Queue(s)

At execution time, when the jobs are submitted to Batch, the requests are set up to propagate tags to all the instances created by the head job.

### Google Life Sciences

For GLS, the only entity that will be tagged is the `Run Pipeline Request`: the propagation of the labels to subsequent resources during execution is delegated to Nextflow.

### Azure

!!!warning
The labeling system on Azure Cloud uses the naming Metadata

When creating an Azure Compute Environment through Forge, resource labels are added to the Pool parameters: this will add a set of `key=value` metadata pairs to the Azure Batch Pool.

### Kubernetes

Both the Head pod and Work pod specs will contain the set of labels associated with the compute environment in addition to the standard labels applied by Tower and Nextflow.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

!!!warning
    Currently, tagging with resource labels is not available for the files created during a workflow execution. The cloud instances are the elements being tagged.

!!!warning
    Resource label propagation is one-way and not synchronized with the cloud environment. This means that Tower attaches tags to cloud resources, but is not aware if those tags are changed or deleted directly in the cloud environment.

> ## Search and filter with labels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Search and filter with labels

```

> Search and filter pipelines and workflow runs using one or more resource labels. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Search and filter pipelines and runs using one or more resource labels. 
```

Filter and search use the same keywords as labels.
The resource labels use a `label:key=value` format. 

![](_images/filter_labels.png)

## Overview of resource labels in a workspace

All resource labels used in a workspace can be viewed in the workspace’s Settings screen. 
Resource labels can only be edited or deleted by admins and only if they are not already associated with **any** Tower resource.
This includes both compute environments and runs.
The deletion of a resource label from a workspace has no influence on the cloud environment. 

![](_images/label_management.png)

## Limits

!!!warning

>     Resource labels need to have non-null key and value. Both the key and value have the same limitations as simple labels for composition and length.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Resource labels need to have a non-null key and value. Both the key and value have the same limitations as simple labels for composition and length.
```

!!!warning

>     Currently, it is not possible to assign multiple resource labels, using the same key, to the same resource, regardless of whether this option is supported by the destination cloud provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Currently, it is not possible to assign multiple resource labels, using the same key, to the same resource — regardless of whether this option is supported by the destination cloud provider.
```

---

> title: Resource Labels Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Resource labels overview
```

> headline: 'Resource Labels'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
headline: 'Resource labels'
```

> description: 'Step-by-step instructions to set-up and use Resurce Labels in Tower.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: 'Step-by-step instructions to set-up and use Resource labels in Tower.'
```

---

## Introduction

> Resource labels are a declination of the general label concept, they have a different format `key=value` and a different behavior than the general labels. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From version 22.3.X, Tower supports applying resource labels to compute environments and other Tower elements. This offers a flexible tagging system for annotation and tracking of the cloud services consumed by a run. 
```

> Resource labels can be associated to Tower elements like a compute environment and are sent to cloud provides upon a workflow execution to tag the resources generated by it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resource labels are sent to the service provider for each cloud compute environment in `key=value` format. They can be created, edited, and applied by a workspace admin or owner. 
```

> The resource labels offer a flexible tagging system interacting with the cloud service provider. Tower resource labels  enable annotating, tracking, and categorizing cloud resources used by a workflow run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Create and apply labels

> Resource labels can be created, applied and edited by a workspace admin or owner. When applying a label, users can select from existing labels or add new ones on the fly. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resource labels can be created, applied, and edited by a workspace admin or owner. When applying a label, users can select from existing labels or add new labels on-the-fly. 
```

![](_images/ce-resource-labels.png)

### Resource labels applied to a compute environment
Admins can assign a set of resource labels when creating a compute environment.
All runs executed using the compute environment will be tagged with the compute enviromment resoruce labels.

> Resoruce labels applied to a compute environment are displayed in the compute environment details page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resource labels applied to a compute environment are displayed on the compute environment details page.
```

![](_images/launch-resource-labels.png)

> Apply label to a compute enviromnent when adding a new compute environment to the workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apply a label when adding a new compute environment to the workspace.
```

!!!warning

>     Once the compute environment is created, the resource labels cannot be edited at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Once the compute environment is created, its resource labels cannot be edited.
```

> If a resource label as applied to a compute environment, all workflow runs of this pipeline will inherit the resource label. Likewise, all cloud resrouces generated during the workflow execution will be tagged with the same resource label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a resource label is applied to a compute environment, all runs in that compute environment will inherit it. Likewise, all cloud resources generated during the workflow execution will be tagged with the same resource label.
```

![](_images/workflow-resource-labels.png)

## Resource label propagation to cloud environments

> Resource labels are only available for cloud environment endowed with a resource tagging system. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resource labels are only available for cloud environments that use a resource tagging system. 
```

> Tower supports AWS, Google Life Science, Azure and Kubernetes: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tower supports AWS, Google Life Sciences, Azure, and Kubernetes — HPC compute environments do not support resource labels. 
```

> HPC compute environments cannot have resouce labels associated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Whenever a run is executed in a compute environment with associated resource labels, Tower takes care to propagate the labels to a set of resources, listed below, while Nextflow will distribute the labels for the resources that are spawn at runtime

> If the compute environment is created through Forge then compute environment creation will propagate the tags to the resources generated by the Forge execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the compute environment is created through Forge, the compute environment will propagate the tags to the resources generated by the Forge execution.
```

### AWS

> When the compute environment is created with forge then the following resources will be tagged using the labels associated with the compute environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the compute environment is created with Forge, the following resources will be tagged using the labels associated with the compute environment:
```

- FSX Filesystems
- EFS Filesystems
- Roles and Policies
- Batch Compute Environment
- Batch Queue(s)

> At execution time, when the jobs are submitted to Batch, the request are all instrumented to propagate tags to all the  instances created by the head job 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At execution time, when the jobs are submitted to Batch, the requests are set up to propagate tags to all the instances created by the head job.
```

> ### Google Life Science

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Google Life Sciences
```

> For GLS the only entity that will be tagged is the `Run Pipeline Request`: the propagation of the labels to subsequent resources during execution is delegated to Nextflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For GLS, the only entity that will be tagged is the `Run Pipeline Request`: the propagation of the labels to subsequent resources during execution is delegated to Nextflow.
```

### Azure

!!!warning
The labeling system on Azure Cloud uses the naming Metadata

When creating an Azure Compute Environment through Forge will add the resource labels to the Pool Parameters: this will add a set of key=value metadatas to the Azure Batch Pool.

### Kubernetes

> Both Head Pod and Work pods specs will contains the set of labels associated with the compute environment along with the standard labels applied by Tower and Nextflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both the Head pod and Work pod specs will contain the set of labels associated with the compute environment in addition to the standard labels applied by Tower and Nextflow.
```

!!!warning
    Currently, the tagging with resource labels is not available for the files created during a workflow execution. The cloud instances are the elements being tagged.

!!!warning

>     The resource labels propagation is one-way and not synchronized with the cloud environment. This means that Tower takes care to attach tags to cloud resources but is not aware if those tags change  or are deleted directly in the cloud environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Resource label propagation is one-way and not synchronized with the cloud environment. This means that Tower attaches tags to cloud resources, but is not aware if those tags are changed or deleted directly in the cloud environment.
```

## Search and filter with labels
Search and filter pipelines and workflow runs using one or more resource labels. 

> Filter and search are complementary and it works using the same keyword as for labels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filter and search use the same keywords as labels.
```

The requirements are to have a `label:key=value` format. 

![](_images/filter_labels.png)

## Overview of resource labels in a workspace

> All resource labels used in a workspace can be viewed, in the workspace’s Setting screen. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All resource labels used in a workspace can be viewed in the workspace’s Settings screen. 
```

> Resrouce labels can be edited or deleted only by admins and only if they are not associated to **any** Tower resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resource labels can only be edited or deleted by admins and only if they are not already associated with **any** Tower resource.
```

> This includes both compute environments and workflow runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This includes both compute environments and runs.
```

> The deletion of a resource label from a workspace has no influence whatsoever to the cloud environment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deletion of a resource label from a workspace has no influence on the cloud environment. 
```

![](_images/label_management.png)

## Limits

!!!warning

>     Resoruce labels need to have non-null key and value. Both key and value follow the same limitations for simple labels in terms of composition and length.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Resource labels need to have non-null key and value. Both the key and value have the same limitations as simple labels for composition and length.
```

!!!warning
    Currently, it is not possible to assign multiple resource labels with the same key but different values to the same resource, regardless if this option is supported or handled by the destination cloud provider.

> - A maximum of 25 resource abels can be applied to each resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Resource labels can have a maximum of 25 characters.
```

> - A maximum of 100 resource labels  can be used in each workspace.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A maximum of 100 resource labels can be used in each workspace.  
```
